[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> The presence of fear is a
sign you're relying on your own
strength.
It's a beautiful message
from a course in miracles.
So when you identify
that you are
trying to control
your circumstances
or make something happen
or try to force something
to happen on your own time
or even just even controlling
something in your mind, then you
know that there's fear present.
And it also is in
any time in our life
when we're relying on
ourselves to create
or relying on
ourselves to show up,
we're misaligned with
the truth of who we are
and we're out of alignment
with a higher power.
So that's the presence of fear
is when we forget that there
is a higher power, that there
is a presence of love within us,
around us, an ever
present energy of love
that's always supporting us.
It's when we forget that,
that we get into fear.
So the way that we
unlearn that fear
is through reconditioning
truly, truly reconditioning
our thought processes,
reconditioning our belief
systems, prayer, meditation.
Any type of spiritual
path is really
a mental reconditioning of
unlearning fear and remembering
love.
And the beauty of all this that
the love doesn't go anywhere.
The love is always there.
And we can't actually block it.
We just forget to see it.
So we have to really--
it's almost like
we're in a dream.
We're having a nightmare.
And we wake up from
that dream and we
realize that the moment that
we turn on those lights,
we realize we're just
having a nightmare.
But we have to remember that
those lights are always on,
right, so we can turn those
lights on at any moment
and we can wake up
from that dream.
We all have fear-based
limiting belief systems that
have been ingrained
in us since childhood,
belief systems of
I'm not good enough,
or belief systems of,
who am I to be great?
Or who am I to earn money?
Or how could I possibly do that
thing I've been dreaming of?
And these belief
systems are stifling us
and keeping us small
and blocking us
from really living
in our highest
potential in our highest service
and in our highest joy truly.
So the first step to really
healing those belief systems
is to witness them,
to witness them
without any judgment, witness
our judgment of ourselves
without judgment, and to
be really conscious of,
what are these belief systems?
How are they making us feel?
We can ask ourselves
those questions.
What is my limiting belief?
How is it making me feel?
And then going so far to say,
what experience from my past
is causing me to
believe this now?
Because all of it comes
from a root cause condition.
It comes from a moment in time
when we separated from God,
when we separated from love.
And then we had that
experience of separation
and then we
continued to build up
a world that is a false
belief system of fear,
a false belief
system of inadequacy
and feelings of not
being good enough.
So we continue to
repurpose and replay
this story over and over
in so many different ways.
So we repurpose it in our
career or relationships.
We have the same relationship
just a different body
every time.
And so the quickest pathway
to creating that change
is to first and foremost
witness it and recognize it.
And we have to be the
witness of that fear
in order to change it.
And in that witnessing,
there's also a willingness
because there's a willingness
to look at our crazy really.
And we have to look
at our crazy and we
have to call it by its
name, which is fear.
And that really begins the
journey of undoing the fear
and unlearning the fear.
The first step is crucial.
Because without that
willingness and that desire
to witness and look
at it, we can't
have the catalyst for change.
We can't have the
desire to change.
And then we have
to really open up
to a belief system
beyond our own.
Because in order to
create that change
in the sense of the
transformation of a belief
system that has held
us back for a lifetime
requires a spiritual connection,
a spiritual awareness,
in my opinion.
I mean, there's many
things you can do.
There's many personal growth
tools that you can use.
And there's beautiful
therapy practices.
But there's spirit
and God in all that.
I believe that spirit works
through those doctors and works
through those self-help
books and works
through those different
practitioners and yoga teachers
and meditation instructors or
whoever you may be guided to.
And so when you open up with
a willingness to change,
you will be guided.
You'll be guided to the teacher,
the yoga instructor, the book,
maybe this film.
Many of us, and I
speak for those of us
out there who dissociate
from traumatic events
particularly when we're
a child, and for me, I
tucked it away and
remembered it at 36,
which was one of the most
terrifying and liberating
moments of my life.
But I never understood, why
did I become a drug addict
and alcoholic?
Why did I become addicted to
relationships and co-dependent?
Why was I a food addict?
What were all-- why?
What was the why, right?
I felt everything was so good.
But many of us, whether
we literally remember
the traumatic event or have
completely dissociated from it,
have many mechanisms for
running from the pain,
running from the trauma,
anesthetizing that trauma.
That's why we drink.
It's why we overwork.
It's why we overachieve.
It's why we self-sabotage.
And I believe that
trauma is the root cause
of most addictive behaviors.
So if there's those
addicts listening,
I've been sober 12 years now.
I believe that the
trauma was the root
cause of my addictive behavior
because I was running,
because I was anesthetizing.
I was avoiding.
I was doing anything I could
to not remember and not feel.
And the moment that the
cat was out of the bag
and I actually did have the
recollection and the memory
came back to me, as terrifying
and fearful as that was for me,
it was also this incredible
liberating experience
of finally feeling like I
don't have to run anymore.
So the first step is
to face the trauma,
to accept that you
have been traumatized,
to accept that these
events are real,
and to choose to stop running.
That's scary.
Because the ways that we've
been running have been the ways
that we've stayed safe.
But there's really
nothing safe about that.
True safety lies in
our freedom from it
not from the running from it.
So some things I
really recommend
for people who
are healing trauma
is emotional freedom
technique, EFT, otherwise known
as tapping.
It's something I teach in
practice in my own trauma
healing.
EMDR is eye movement
desensitization
and reprocessing.
And EMDR is a beautiful
practice of reprogramming
the neural pathways through
bilateral brain functioning
and really unlocking the
amygdala to release the trauma.
And with EFT and EMDR,
really what's happening
is you're healing the emotional
disturbance that lives
beneath the traumatic event.
And so when you can heal
that emotional disturbance,
then you can be released
of that fight or flight.
And this is a big suggestion.
When you're in the place of
recognizing identifying trauma
and becoming
prepared to heal it,
stay in prayer to
find or attract
or seek the right healer
that's going to be the safest
healer for you.
Because that was probably-- my
prayers for healing guided me
to a team of very
talented therapists,
spiritual healers, EMDR
experts, who I've built up
and I've had the privilege
of being able to work with.
Now someone is saying, well,
OK, I can't afford a therapist.
I can't afford that.
There's many
resources out there.
There's plenty of EFT
videos for free on YouTube.
I promise to write
a book on trauma
that I will give to anybody
that can't afford it.
I just I am on a
mission of helping
people heal their
traumatic wounds so
that they can be free.
And freedom is on
the other side.
Many people feel
like, what is my life
without this because it's
been so debilitating?
But I do promise
anyone that's watching
that there is freedom
on the other side
because I'm
experiencing it myself.
It comes with commitment
and a real desire to change.